Swarm Intelligence / Robotics:

Swarm Intelligence (SI) as a method of problem solving through the use of agents interacting with their environment as the source of their knowledge\cite{Beni-Robot}. The agents are represented as robots in a collective body known as Swarm Robotics. As collective intelligence of the swarm it raises the social behavior an individual robot, the test algorithms used are independent of an controlling entity to provide guidance to other robots. The independence of this allows robots to base decision on their immediate environment, their current robotic status and ability. 

Swarm-based robotics (SR) is defined by Bonabeau \textit{et al} \cite{Robot-Swarm} that it may be able to perform tasks without needing a explicit representation of the environment. These robots are modeled after insect colonies respectively as desert ants for clustering and honey bees for foraging. Each colony has their own internal communication method to achieving their goals and enable the process that is mimicked on the robots.

SI \& SR as a self-organized social insects use a communication method call stigmergy \cite{Robot-Swarm}, it can be in a form of direct and in-direct communication. Where direct is in the form of physical information exchange \& in-direct by means of environment changes. Stigmergy will be used as follow: Direct where the honey bee broadcasts a foraging site by dancing when it arrives at the hive. Also by in-direct for ant cemetery clustering where each ant exams the environment to affect its decision making.

Ant Cemetery Clustering:

The desert ant is used to model the ant clustering process, it is chosen for these ants are independent of any direct communication or information sharing. Desert ants do not require any pheromones or beacons to provide navigation it only uses vision of its immediate environment [12 Jade]. The cemetery cluster is based on the ant that move there died into clusters dependent on the observed environment and the density of object clusters [77 AI]. As for movement decisions it uses random navigation or if detection movement is towards the lowest density [13 Jade]. Once an object is picked up it is carries towards the highest dens array until it satisfies the dropping probability where it is then dropped.  This clustering process will aim at improving the performance of foraging due to the closer group of the same priority objects. The abilities of a desert ant is simplistic and does not require many detectors to be added to the robot making it viable and can be cost effective as only a camera is required.

Bee Foraging:

The honey-bee is proven by Jade [Jade] to be success foraging algorithm when working with a wider variety of grid configurations and object placing. These bees have three roles assigned to them [Jade 7]: Employed-, unemployed foragers and scouts. Scouts search the environments, once an object successfully foraged depending on its desirability it can dance for the unemployed bees. These bees wait for a dance and employed bees are actively foraging a location. As suggested by Jasen [Jade 14] waiting bees change to scout after a duration of time. An improvement made is during employed foraging, if a higher dens location is detected while following bare it would rather forage that  location.
